= Random Token

Generate a random token in a simply way.

  jjukoguwegcvclkuhljvsblrpfnd
  je         dzl            pu
  qu  yrllvr  bsnehow  pplshyo
  sw  hwzedi  cnjdpqw  pnuctvl
  fY  sJmss  msg2Qpbx  7sgtFpD
  5V        90Ofl83da  3TQ6fQj
  il  q93H  GLpCNvakC  Fd0ppyd
  QW  TWZLX  WFQUWYMD  MJSYRJI
  IX  AIVBZI  andomPR  okenYIN
  DRRJVYVMEVREBFYXLLFQGISGAGED

== Usage

=== Basic

Use "gen" method to create a random token with a given length.

  RandomToken.gen(8)
  # "iUEFxcG2"

Some options can help to modify the token format.

  RandomToken.gen(20, :seed => :alphabet, :friendly => true, :case => :up)
  # "YTHJHTXKSSXTPLARALRH"

Use string format to create a random in the particular format. Please read "Format" below to get more details.

  RandomToken.gen("Give me a token %8?")
  # "Give me a token 6HRQZp8O"

=== Seed

Use +:seed+ option to customize the random characters.

Use +:a+ (or +:alphabet+, +:l+, +:letter+) to create a token with alphabets.

  RandomToken.gen(32, :seed => :a)
  # "DTVbCnRldQnLAoERHAzjLOTJBTWoBGQb"

Use +:n+ (or +:number+, +10+, +1+) to create a token with numbers.

  RandomToken.gen(32, :seed => :n)
  # "41107838709625922353782552721916"

Use +:b+ (or +:binary+, +2+) to create a binary token.

  RandomToken.gen(32, :seed => :b)
  # "11101001110110110000101101010101"

Use +:o+ (or +:oct+, 8) to create a octal token.

  RandomToken.gen(32, :seed => :o)
  # "57531726664723324643140173424423"

Use +:h+ (or +:hex+, 16) to create a hexadecimal token.

  RandomToken.gen(32, :seed => :h)
  # "B7E1FD250D250008314496AE48EDE310"

Use an +array+ to customize random seeds.

  RandomToken.gen(32, :seed => ['a', 'b', 'c'])
  # "cbbcbcabbbacbaaababcbcabcacbcacb"

Use a +hash+ to customize random seeds and their distribution, for example, the following hash would create a token with "a" and "b" where p("a") = 1/3 and p("b") = 2/3.

  RandomToken.gen(32, :seed => { 'a' => 1, 'b' => 2 })
  # "bbabbaaaabaabbbabbbbbbbbbaababbb"

=== Friendly

Use +:friendly+ option to remove the ambiguous characters, the default mask includes <b>1, I, l, i, 0, O, o, Q, D, C, c, G, 9, 6, U, u, V, v, E, F, M, N, 8, B</b>.

  RandomToken.gen(32, :friendly => true)
  # "fjx5WTb4wbPmbwb7b4szzY4szfrqtJLj"

There is a convenient method "genf" which using <code>:friendly => true</code> by default.

  RandomToken.genf(32)
  # "kPafJh5gHAPJjYsssjW7yhthPr4Zg4t3"

Friendly is not supported with some +:seed+ options(+:b+, +:o+, +:h+ and customized hash seeds).

  RandomToken.genf(32, :seed => :b)
  # RandomToken::RandomTokenError: RandomToken::RandomTokenError

Use +:mask+ to customize your own friendly mask. Note that +:friendly+ is ture by default if +:mask+ is given.

  RandomToken.gen(32, :mask => ['a', 'b', 'c'])
  # "QlHhMpfrGnOykMS8tpfYrW0EnqvRsItw"

=== Case

Use +:case+ option to modify the token case.

Use +:u+ (or +:up+) to create an upper-case token.

  RandomToken.gen(32, :case => :u)
  # "YKNOAMC5FQZTMRS9U3SI4U9QWEMU7TLL"

Use +:d+ (or +:down+) to create a down-case token.

  RandomToken.gen(32, :case => :d)
  # "8fvs6dfxko4buxcho23vz5jpxw9arj7t"

Use +:m+ (or +:mixed+) to create a mixed-case token. It is the default option.

  RandomToken.gen(32, :case => :m)
  # "BjWRJjU2iKF2O1cKrWpnF1EzZHuoUCM5"

Case is not supported with some +:seed+ options(+:n+, +:b+, +:o+ and customized hash seeds).

  RandomToken.gen(32, :seed => :n, :case => :u)
  # RandomToken::RandomTokenError: RandomToken::RandomTokenError

With <code>:seed => :h</code>, the default case is changed to upper-case. You can override it by giving the +:case+ option.

  RandomToken.gen(32, :seed => :h, :case => :d)
  # "d331ce7dae87f3bb3dcb3975be9c430d"

=== Format

You can embed random tokens in your own string using the format feature. Here are some examples:

  RandomToken.gen("%4H-%4H-%4H-%4H")
  # "FD77-2792-91A9-6CE3"

  RandomToken.gen("%2A-%4n")
  # "VS-6921" 

  RandomToken.genf("Your redeem code: %16?")
  # "Your redeem code: 4xgRH2JaLxtR3dWK"

  RandomToken.gen("Lucky Number = %n")
  # "Lucky Number = 8"

The directive consists of a percent(%), length, and type.

  %[length][type]

where

length::
  The length of random token you want to create. The default value is 1 if no length is given.

type::
  * A - upper-case alphabets
  * a - down-case alphabets
  * n - numbers
  * b - binaries
  * o - octal digits
  * H - upper-case hexadecimal digits
  * h - down-case hexadecimal digits
  * X - upper-case alphabets and numbers
  * x - down-case alphabets and numbers
  * ? - mixed-case alphabets and numbers
  * % - show the % sign

Note that +:seed+, +:friendly+, +:case+ options are also supported in the format string, and they would override the type behavior.

  RandomToken.gen("%32X", :seed => :a, :friendly => true, :case => :d)
  # "ddbpeqhtmaenxsaksxrmeaawnwpkfess"

== Use Cases

=== Case 1

How to create a RPG random desert map?

  1.upto(10).each { puts RandomToken.gen(28, :seed => { '.' => 1000, 'o' => 20, 'O' => 5, '_' => 1 }) }

  ............................
  .......................O.o..
  ............................
  ........................_...
  .....o...............O......
  ............................
  ............................
  ............................
  .........o....O.............
  .o..........................

Is it a desert? Of course!! . = sand, o = small stone, O = large stone, and _ = oasis.

Oh..., I think I am not a man of imagination like you...

=== Case 2

How to create a cool logo?

  puts RandomToken.gen("%28a\n%2a#{' '*9}%3a#{' '*12}%2a\n%2a  %6a  %7a  %7a\n%2a  %6a  %7a  %7a\n%2?  %5?  %8?  %7?\n%2?#{' '*8}%9?  %7?\n%2?  %4?  %9?  %7?\n%2A  %5A  %8A  %7A\n%2A  %6A  andom%2A  oken%3A\n%28A")

  ieqccitkalecvbfehlfbkejdthxc
  kt         vhk            mw
  mt  rktuhx  wvniunx  yckqxih
  gu  mbrjdf  ratkfyj  oxcvtle
  F7  tFpoz  8QZpLT1Y  vxNl778
  VZ        gXqKqXDkr  Nx1j0Ig
  n9  ee7s  UeDOXLl3D  pxf6mgH
  VM  QGSPP  VAJCAVDM  UJRCCXP
  KC  TMWEVM  andomAX  okenQNE
  NMVJJAXHHAPLDSYNHCXILCFWYAQA

Uh, I don't think it is cool enough...

== Test

Go to random_token gem folder and run

  ruby ./test/test_all.rb

== Authors

Sibevin Wang

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2013 Sibevin Wang. Released under the MIT license.
